README.md, before:

![Latest GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/byu-oit/terraform-aws-fargate-api?sort=semver)

# Terraform AWS Fargate API
Terraform module pattern to build a standard Fargate API.

This module creates a Fargate service with an ALB, AutoScaling, CodeDeploy configuration and a DNS record in front.

**Note:** This module has many preset standards to make creating an API using Fargate easy. If you require a more 
customized solution you may need to use this code more as a pattern or guideline in how to build the resources you need. 
 
## Usage
```hcl
module "my_app" {
  source = "github.com/byu-oit/terraform-aws-fargate-api?ref=v3.1.1"
  app_name       = "example-api"
  container_port = 8000
  primary_container_definition = {
    name  = "example"
    image = "crccheck/hello-world"
    ports = [8000]
    environment_variables = null
    secrets = null
    efs_volume_mounts = null
  }

  autoscaling_config            = null
  codedeploy_test_listener_port = 8443
  codedeploy_lifecycle_hooks = {
    BeforeInstall         = null
    AfterInstall          = null
    AfterAllowTestTraffic = "testLifecycle"
    BeforeAllowTraffic    = null
    AfterAllowTraffic     = null
  }

  hosted_zone                   = module.acs.route53_zone
  https_certificate_arn         = module.acs.certificate.arn
  public_subnet_ids             = module.acs.public_subnet_ids
  private_subnet_ids            = module.acs.private_subnet_ids
  vpc_id                        = module.acs.vpc.id
  codedeploy_service_role_arn   = module.acs.power_builder_role.arn
  role_permissions_boundary_arn = module.acs.role_permissions_boundary.arn

  tags = {
    env              = "dev"
    data-sensitivity = "internal"
    repo             = "https://github.com/byu-oit/terraform-aws-fargate-api"
  }
}
```

## Created Resources
* ECS Cluster (if not provided)
* ECS Service
    * with security group
* ECS Task Definition
    * with IAM role
* CloudWatch Log Group
* ALB
    * with security group
* 2 Target Groups (for blue-green deployment)
* CodeDeploy App
    * with IAM role
* CodeDeploy Group
* DNS A-Record
* AutoScaling Target
* AutoScaling Policies (one for stepping up and one for stepping down)
* CloudWatch Metric Alarms (one for stepping up and one for stepping down)

## Requirements
* Terraform version 0.12.16 or greater

## Inputs
| Name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| app_name | string | Application name to name your Fargate API and other resources (Must be <= 24 alphanumeric characters) | |
| ecs_cluster_name | string | Existing ECS Cluster name to host the fargate server. Defaults to creating its own cluster. | <app_name> |
| primary_container_definition | [object](#container_definition) | The primary container definition for your application. This one will be the only container that receives traffic from the ALB, so make sure the `ports` field contains the same port as the `image_port` | |
| extra_container_definitions | list([object](#container_definition)) | A list of extra container definitions (side car containers) | [] |
| container_port | number | The port the primary docker container is listening on | |
| health_check_path | string | Health check path for the image | "/" |
| health_check_interval | number | Amount of time, in seconds, between health checks of an individual target | 30 |
| health_check_timeout | number | Amount of time, in seconds, during which no response means a failed health check | 5 |
| health_check_healthy_threshold | number | Number of consecutive health checks required before considering target as healthy | 3 |
| health_check_unhealthy_threshold | number | Number of consecutive failed health checks required before considering target as unhealthy | 3 |
| health_check_grace_period | number | Health check grace period in seconds| 0 |
| task_policies | list(string) | List of IAM Policy ARNs to attach to the task execution IAM Policy| [] |
| task_cpu | number | CPU for the task definition | 256 |
| task_memory | number | Memory for the task definition | 512 |
| security_groups | list(string) | List of extra security group IDs to attach to the fargate task | []|
| vpc_id | string | VPC ID to deploy the ECS fargate service and ALB | |
| public_subnet_ids | list(string) | List of subnet IDs for the ALB | |
| private_subnet_ids | list(string) | List of subnet IDs for the fargate service | |
| codedeploy_service_role_arn | string | ARN of the IAM Role for the CodeDeploy to use to initiate new deployments. (usually the PowerBuilder Role) | |
| codedeploy_termination_wait_time | number | the number of minutes to wait after a successful blue/green deployment before terminating instances from the original environment | 15 |
| codedeploy_test_listener_port | number | The port for a codedeploy test listener. If provided CodeDeploy will use this port for test traffic on the new replacement set during the blue-green deployment process before shifting production traffic to the replacement set | null |
| codedeploy_lifecycle_hooks | [object](#codedeploy_lifecycle_hooks) | Define Lambda Functions for each CodeDeploy [lifecycle event hooks](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codedeploy/latest/userguide/reference-appspec-file-structure-hooks.html). Use the Lambda function names as the values. Use null if you don't want to invoke a lambda function at that specific hook. Or set this variable to null to not have any lifecycle hooks invoked | `null` |
| appspec_filename | string | Filename (including path) to use when outputing appspec json. | `appspec.json` in the current working directory (i.e. where you ran `terraform apply`) |
| role_permissions_boundary_arn | string | ARN of the IAM Role permissions boundary to place on each IAM role created | |
| target_group_deregistration_delay | number | Deregistration delay in seconds for ALB target groups | 60 |
| site_url | string | The URL for the site. | Concatenates app_name with hosted_zone_name. |
| hosted_zone | [object](#hosted_zone) | Hosted Zone object to redirect to ALB. (Can pass in the aws_hosted_zone object). A and AAAA records created in this hosted zone | |
| https_certificate_arn | string | ARN of the HTTPS certificate of the hosted zone/domain | |
| autoscaling_config | [object](#autoscaling_config) | Configuration for default autoscaling policies and alarms. Set to `null` if you want to set up your own autoscaling policies and alarms.  | |
| log_retention_in_days | number | CloudWatch log group retention in days | 120 |
| tags | map(string) | A map of AWS Tags to attach to each resource created | {} |
| lb_logging_enabled | bool | Option to enable logging of load balancer requests. | false |
| lb_logging_bucket_name | string | Required if `lb_logging_enabled` is true. A bucket to store the logs in with an a [load balancer access policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/classic/enable-access-logs.html#attach-bucket-policy) attached. | |
| fargate_platform_version | string | Version of the Fargate platform to run. | 1.4.0 |

#### container_definition
Object with following attributes to define the docker container(s) your fargate needs to run.
* **`name`** - (Required) container name (referenced in CloudWatch logs, and possibly by other containers)
* **`image`** - (Required) the ecr_image_url with the tag like: `<acct_num>.dkr.ecr.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/myapp:dev` or the image URL from dockerHub or some other docker registry
* **`ports`** - (Required) a list of ports this container is listening on
* **`environment_variables`** - (Required) a map of environment variables to pass to the docker container
* **`secrets`** - (Required) a map of secrets from the parameter store to be assigned to env variables
* **`efs_volume_mounts`** - (Required) a list of efs_volume_mount [objects](#efs_volume_mount) to be mounted into the container.

**Before running this configuration** make sure that your ECR repo exists and an image has been pushed to the repo.

#### efs_volume_mount
Example
```
    efs_volume_mounts = [
      {
        name = "persistent_data"
        file_system_id = aws_efs_file_system.my_efs.id
        root_directory = "/"
        container_path = "/usr/app/data"
      }
    ]
```
* **`name`** - A logical name used to describe what the mount is for.
* **`file_system_id`** - ID of the EFS to mount.
* **`root_directory`** - Source path inside the EFS.
* **`container_path`** - Target path inside the container.

See the following docs for more details:
* https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/ecs_task_definition.html#volume-block-arguments
* https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/ecs_task_definition.html#efs-volume-configuration-arguments
* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/APIReference/API_ContainerDefinition.html
* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/APIReference/API_MountPoint.html


#### codedeploy_lifecycle_hooks
This variable is used when generating the [appspec.json](#appspec) file. This will define what Lambda Functions to invoke 
at specific [lifecycle hooks](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codedeploy/latest/userguide/reference-appspec-file-structure-hooks.html). 
Set this variable to `null` if you don't want to invoke any lambda functions. Set each hook to `null` if you don't need 
a specific lifecycle hook function.

* **`before_install`** - lambda function name to run before new task set is created
* **`after_install`** - lambda function name to run after new task set is created before test traffic points to new task set
* **`after_allow_test_traffic`** - lambda function name to run after test traffic points to new task set
* **`before_allow_traffic`** - lambda function name to run before public traffic points to new task set
* **`after_allow_traffic`** - lambda function name to run after public traffic points to new task set

#### hosted_zone
You can pass in either the object from the AWS terraform provider for an AWS Hosted Zone, or just an object with the following attributes:
* **`name`** - (Required) Name of the hosted zone
* **`id`** - (Required) ID of the hosted zone

#### autoscaling_config
This module will create basic default autoscaling policies and alarms and you can define some variables of these default autoscaling policies.
* **`min_capacity`** - (Required) Minimum task count for autoscaling (this will also be used to define the initial desired count of the ECS Fargate Service)
* **`max_capacity`** - (Required) Maximum task count for autoscaling

**Note:** If you want to define your own autoscaling policies/alarms then you need to set this field to `null` at which point this module will not create any policies/alarms.

**Note:** the desired count of the ECS Fargate Service will be set the first time terraform runs but changes to desired count will be ignored after the first time.  

#### CloudWatch logs
This module will create a CloudWatch log group named `fargate/<app_name>` with log streams named `<app_name>/<container_name>/<container_id>`. 

For instance with the [above example](#usage) the logs could be found in the CloudWatch log group: `fargate/example-api` with the container logs in `example-api/example/12d344fd34b556ae4326...` 

## Outputs
| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| fargate_service | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/ecs_service.html#attributes-reference) | Fargate ECS Service object |
| ecs_cluster | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/ecs_cluster.html#attributes-reference) | ECS Cluster (created or pre-existing) the service is deployed on |
| fargate_service_security_group | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/security_group.html#attributes-reference) | Security Group object assigned to the Fargate service |
| task_definition | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/ecs_task_definition.html#attributes-reference) | The task definition object of the fargate service |
| codedeploy_deployment_group | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/codedeploy_deployment_group.html#attributes-reference) | The CodeDeploy deployment group object. |
| codedeploy_appspec_json_file | string | Filename of the generated appspec.json file |
| alb | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/lb.html#attributes-reference) | The Application Load Balancer (ALB) object |
| alb_security_group | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/security_group.html#attributes-reference) | The ALB's security group object |
| dns_record | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/route53_record.html#attributes-reference) | The DNS A-record mapped to the ALB | 
| autoscaling_step_up_policy | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/autoscaling_policy.html#attributes-reference) | Autoscaling policy to step up |
| autoscaling_step_down_policy | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/autoscaling_policy.html#attributes-reference) | Autoscaling policy to step down |
| task_role | [object](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role#attributes-reference) | IAM role created for the tasks. |
| task_execution_role | [object](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role#attributes-reference) | IAM role created for the execution of tasks. |

#### appspec
This module also creates a JSON file in the project directory: `appspec.json` used to initiate a CodeDeploy Deployment.

Here's an example appspec.json file this creates:
```json
{
  "Resources": [
    {
      "TargetService": {
        "Properties": {
          "LoadBalancerInfo": {
            "ContainerName": "example",
            "ContainerPort": 8000
          },
          "TaskDefinition": "arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:123456789123:task-definition/example-api-def:2"
        },
        "Type": "AWS::ECS::SERVICE"
      }
    }
  ],
  "version": 1
}
```
And example with [lifecycle hooks](#codedeploy_lifecycle_hooks):
```json
{
  "Hooks": [
    {
      "BeforeInstall": null
    },
    {
      "AfterInstall": "AfterInstallHookFunctionName"
    },
    {
      "AfterAllowTestTraffic": "AfterAllowTestTrafficHookFunctionName"
    },
    {
      "BeforeAllowTraffic": null
    },
    {
      "AfterAllowTraffic": null
    }
  ],
  "Resources": [
    {
      "TargetService": {
        "Properties": {
          "LoadBalancerInfo": {
            "ContainerName": "example",
            "ContainerPort": 8000
          },
          "TaskDefinition": "arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:123456789123:task-definition/example-api-def:2"
        },
        "Type": "AWS::ECS::SERVICE"
      }
    }
  ],
  "version": 1
}
```

## CodeDeploy Blue-Green Deployment
This module creates a blue-green deployment process with CodeDeploy. If a `codedeploy_test_listener_port` is provided 
this module will create an ALB listener that will allow public traffic from that port to the running fargate service.

When a CodeDeploy deployment is initiated (either via a pipeline or manually) CodeDeploy will:
1. call lambda function defined for `BeforeInstall` hook
2. attempt to create a new set of tasks (called the replacement set) with the new task definition etc. in the unused ALB Target Group
3. call lambda function defined for `AfterInstall` hook
4. associate the test listener (if defined) to the new target group
5. call lambda function defined for `AfterAllowTestTraffic` hook
6. call lambda function defined for `BeforeAllowTraffic` hook
7. associate the production listener to the new target group
8. call lambda function defined for `AfterAllowTraffic` hook
9. wait for the `codedeploy_termination_wait_time` in minutes before destroying the original task set (this is useful if you need to manually rollback)

At any step (except step #1) the deployment can rollback (either manually or by the lambda functions in the lifecycle hooks or if there was an error trying to actually deploy)

##### TODO add diagrams to explain the blue-green deployment process 

## Note
If you require additional variables please create an [issue](https://github.com/byu-oit/terraform-aws-fargate-api/issues)
 and/or a [pull request](https://github.com/byu-oit/terraform-aws-fargate-api/pulls) to add the variable and reach 
 out to the Terraform Working Group on slack (`#terraform` channel).

Commit message:

add flag to mark alb as internal

README.md, after:

![Latest GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/byu-oit/terraform-aws-fargate-api?sort=semver)

# Terraform AWS Fargate API
Terraform module pattern to build a standard Fargate API.

This module creates a Fargate service with an ALB, AutoScaling, CodeDeploy configuration and a DNS record in front.

**Note:** This module has many preset standards to make creating an API using Fargate easy. If you require a more 
customized solution you may need to use this code more as a pattern or guideline in how to build the resources you need. 
 
## Usage
```hcl
module "my_app" {
  source = "github.com/byu-oit/terraform-aws-fargate-api?ref=v3.1.1"
  app_name       = "example-api"
  container_port = 8000
  primary_container_definition = {
    name  = "example"
    image = "crccheck/hello-world"
    ports = [8000]
    environment_variables = null
    secrets = null
    efs_volume_mounts = null
  }

  autoscaling_config            = null
  codedeploy_test_listener_port = 8443
  codedeploy_lifecycle_hooks = {
    BeforeInstall         = null
    AfterInstall          = null
    AfterAllowTestTraffic = "testLifecycle"
    BeforeAllowTraffic    = null
    AfterAllowTraffic     = null
  }

  hosted_zone                   = module.acs.route53_zone
  https_certificate_arn         = module.acs.certificate.arn
  public_subnet_ids             = module.acs.public_subnet_ids
  private_subnet_ids            = module.acs.private_subnet_ids
  vpc_id                        = module.acs.vpc.id
  codedeploy_service_role_arn   = module.acs.power_builder_role.arn
  role_permissions_boundary_arn = module.acs.role_permissions_boundary.arn

  tags = {
    env              = "dev"
    data-sensitivity = "internal"
    repo             = "https://github.com/byu-oit/terraform-aws-fargate-api"
  }
}
```

## Created Resources
* ECS Cluster (if not provided)
* ECS Service
    * with security group
* ECS Task Definition
    * with IAM role
* CloudWatch Log Group
* ALB
    * with security group
* 2 Target Groups (for blue-green deployment)
* CodeDeploy App
    * with IAM role
* CodeDeploy Group
* DNS A-Record
* AutoScaling Target
* AutoScaling Policies (one for stepping up and one for stepping down)
* CloudWatch Metric Alarms (one for stepping up and one for stepping down)

## Requirements
* Terraform version 0.12.16 or greater

## Inputs
| Name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| app_name | string | Application name to name your Fargate API and other resources (Must be <= 24 alphanumeric characters) | |
| ecs_cluster_name | string | Existing ECS Cluster name to host the fargate server. Defaults to creating its own cluster. | <app_name> |
| primary_container_definition | [object](#container_definition) | The primary container definition for your application. This one will be the only container that receives traffic from the ALB, so make sure the `ports` field contains the same port as the `image_port` | |
| extra_container_definitions | list([object](#container_definition)) | A list of extra container definitions (side car containers) | [] |
| container_port | number | The port the primary docker container is listening on | |
| health_check_path | string | Health check path for the image | "/" |
| health_check_interval | number | Amount of time, in seconds, between health checks of an individual target | 30 |
| health_check_timeout | number | Amount of time, in seconds, during which no response means a failed health check | 5 |
| health_check_healthy_threshold | number | Number of consecutive health checks required before considering target as healthy | 3 |
| health_check_unhealthy_threshold | number | Number of consecutive failed health checks required before considering target as unhealthy | 3 |
| health_check_grace_period | number | Health check grace period in seconds| 0 |
| task_policies | list(string) | List of IAM Policy ARNs to attach to the task execution IAM Policy| [] |
| task_cpu | number | CPU for the task definition | 256 |
| task_memory | number | Memory for the task definition | 512 |
| security_groups | list(string) | List of extra security group IDs to attach to the fargate task | []|
| vpc_id | string | VPC ID to deploy the ECS fargate service and ALB | |
| public_subnet_ids | list(string) | List of subnet IDs for the ALB | |
| alb_internal_flag | bool | Marks an ALB as Internal (Inaccessible to public internet) | false
| private_subnet_ids | list(string) | List of subnet IDs for the fargate service | |
| codedeploy_service_role_arn | string | ARN of the IAM Role for the CodeDeploy to use to initiate new deployments. (usually the PowerBuilder Role) | |
| codedeploy_termination_wait_time | number | the number of minutes to wait after a successful blue/green deployment before terminating instances from the original environment | 15 |
| codedeploy_test_listener_port | number | The port for a codedeploy test listener. If provided CodeDeploy will use this port for test traffic on the new replacement set during the blue-green deployment process before shifting production traffic to the replacement set | null |
| codedeploy_lifecycle_hooks | [object](#codedeploy_lifecycle_hooks) | Define Lambda Functions for each CodeDeploy [lifecycle event hooks](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codedeploy/latest/userguide/reference-appspec-file-structure-hooks.html). Use the Lambda function names as the values. Use null if you don't want to invoke a lambda function at that specific hook. Or set this variable to null to not have any lifecycle hooks invoked | `null` |
| appspec_filename | string | Filename (including path) to use when outputing appspec json. | `appspec.json` in the current working directory (i.e. where you ran `terraform apply`) |
| role_permissions_boundary_arn | string | ARN of the IAM Role permissions boundary to place on each IAM role created | |
| target_group_deregistration_delay | number | Deregistration delay in seconds for ALB target groups | 60 |
| site_url | string | The URL for the site. | Concatenates app_name with hosted_zone_name. |
| hosted_zone | [object](#hosted_zone) | Hosted Zone object to redirect to ALB. (Can pass in the aws_hosted_zone object). A and AAAA records created in this hosted zone | |
| https_certificate_arn | string | ARN of the HTTPS certificate of the hosted zone/domain | |
| autoscaling_config | [object](#autoscaling_config) | Configuration for default autoscaling policies and alarms. Set to `null` if you want to set up your own autoscaling policies and alarms.  | |
| log_retention_in_days | number | CloudWatch log group retention in days | 120 |
| tags | map(string) | A map of AWS Tags to attach to each resource created | {} |
| lb_logging_enabled | bool | Option to enable logging of load balancer requests. | false |
| lb_logging_bucket_name | string | Required if `lb_logging_enabled` is true. A bucket to store the logs in with an a [load balancer access policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/classic/enable-access-logs.html#attach-bucket-policy) attached. | |
| fargate_platform_version | string | Version of the Fargate platform to run. | 1.4.0 |

#### container_definition
Object with following attributes to define the docker container(s) your fargate needs to run.
* **`name`** - (Required) container name (referenced in CloudWatch logs, and possibly by other containers)
* **`image`** - (Required) the ecr_image_url with the tag like: `<acct_num>.dkr.ecr.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/myapp:dev` or the image URL from dockerHub or some other docker registry
* **`ports`** - (Required) a list of ports this container is listening on
* **`environment_variables`** - (Required) a map of environment variables to pass to the docker container
* **`secrets`** - (Required) a map of secrets from the parameter store to be assigned to env variables
* **`efs_volume_mounts`** - (Required) a list of efs_volume_mount [objects](#efs_volume_mount) to be mounted into the container.

**Before running this configuration** make sure that your ECR repo exists and an image has been pushed to the repo.

#### efs_volume_mount
Example
```
    efs_volume_mounts = [
      {
        name = "persistent_data"
        file_system_id = aws_efs_file_system.my_efs.id
        root_directory = "/"
        container_path = "/usr/app/data"
      }
    ]
```
* **`name`** - A logical name used to describe what the mount is for.
* **`file_system_id`** - ID of the EFS to mount.
* **`root_directory`** - Source path inside the EFS.
* **`container_path`** - Target path inside the container.

See the following docs for more details:
* https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/ecs_task_definition.html#volume-block-arguments
* https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/ecs_task_definition.html#efs-volume-configuration-arguments
* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/APIReference/API_ContainerDefinition.html
* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/APIReference/API_MountPoint.html


#### codedeploy_lifecycle_hooks
This variable is used when generating the [appspec.json](#appspec) file. This will define what Lambda Functions to invoke 
at specific [lifecycle hooks](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codedeploy/latest/userguide/reference-appspec-file-structure-hooks.html). 
Set this variable to `null` if you don't want to invoke any lambda functions. Set each hook to `null` if you don't need 
a specific lifecycle hook function.

* **`before_install`** - lambda function name to run before new task set is created
* **`after_install`** - lambda function name to run after new task set is created before test traffic points to new task set
* **`after_allow_test_traffic`** - lambda function name to run after test traffic points to new task set
* **`before_allow_traffic`** - lambda function name to run before public traffic points to new task set
* **`after_allow_traffic`** - lambda function name to run after public traffic points to new task set

#### hosted_zone
You can pass in either the object from the AWS terraform provider for an AWS Hosted Zone, or just an object with the following attributes:
* **`name`** - (Required) Name of the hosted zone
* **`id`** - (Required) ID of the hosted zone

#### autoscaling_config
This module will create basic default autoscaling policies and alarms and you can define some variables of these default autoscaling policies.
* **`min_capacity`** - (Required) Minimum task count for autoscaling (this will also be used to define the initial desired count of the ECS Fargate Service)
* **`max_capacity`** - (Required) Maximum task count for autoscaling

**Note:** If you want to define your own autoscaling policies/alarms then you need to set this field to `null` at which point this module will not create any policies/alarms.

**Note:** the desired count of the ECS Fargate Service will be set the first time terraform runs but changes to desired count will be ignored after the first time.  

#### CloudWatch logs
This module will create a CloudWatch log group named `fargate/<app_name>` with log streams named `<app_name>/<container_name>/<container_id>`. 

For instance with the [above example](#usage) the logs could be found in the CloudWatch log group: `fargate/example-api` with the container logs in `example-api/example/12d344fd34b556ae4326...` 

## Outputs
| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| fargate_service | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/ecs_service.html#attributes-reference) | Fargate ECS Service object |
| ecs_cluster | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/ecs_cluster.html#attributes-reference) | ECS Cluster (created or pre-existing) the service is deployed on |
| fargate_service_security_group | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/security_group.html#attributes-reference) | Security Group object assigned to the Fargate service |
| task_definition | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/ecs_task_definition.html#attributes-reference) | The task definition object of the fargate service |
| codedeploy_deployment_group | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/codedeploy_deployment_group.html#attributes-reference) | The CodeDeploy deployment group object. |
| codedeploy_appspec_json_file | string | Filename of the generated appspec.json file |
| alb | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/lb.html#attributes-reference) | The Application Load Balancer (ALB) object |
| alb_security_group | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/security_group.html#attributes-reference) | The ALB's security group object |
| dns_record | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/route53_record.html#attributes-reference) | The DNS A-record mapped to the ALB | 
| autoscaling_step_up_policy | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/autoscaling_policy.html#attributes-reference) | Autoscaling policy to step up |
| autoscaling_step_down_policy | [object](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/autoscaling_policy.html#attributes-reference) | Autoscaling policy to step down |
| task_role | [object](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role#attributes-reference) | IAM role created for the tasks. |
| task_execution_role | [object](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/iam_role#attributes-reference) | IAM role created for the execution of tasks. |

#### appspec
This module also creates a JSON file in the project directory: `appspec.json` used to initiate a CodeDeploy Deployment.

Here's an example appspec.json file this creates:
```json
{
  "Resources": [
    {
      "TargetService": {
        "Properties": {
          "LoadBalancerInfo": {
            "ContainerName": "example",
            "ContainerPort": 8000
          },
          "TaskDefinition": "arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:123456789123:task-definition/example-api-def:2"
        },
        "Type": "AWS::ECS::SERVICE"
      }
    }
  ],
  "version": 1
}
```
And example with [lifecycle hooks](#codedeploy_lifecycle_hooks):
```json
{
  "Hooks": [
    {
      "BeforeInstall": null
    },
    {
      "AfterInstall": "AfterInstallHookFunctionName"
    },
    {
      "AfterAllowTestTraffic": "AfterAllowTestTrafficHookFunctionName"
    },
    {
      "BeforeAllowTraffic": null
    },
    {
      "AfterAllowTraffic": null
    }
  ],
  "Resources": [
    {
      "TargetService": {
        "Properties": {
          "LoadBalancerInfo": {
            "ContainerName": "example",
            "ContainerPort": 8000
          },
          "TaskDefinition": "arn:aws:ecs:us-west-2:123456789123:task-definition/example-api-def:2"
        },
        "Type": "AWS::ECS::SERVICE"
      }
    }
  ],
  "version": 1
}
```

## CodeDeploy Blue-Green Deployment
This module creates a blue-green deployment process with CodeDeploy. If a `codedeploy_test_listener_port` is provided 
this module will create an ALB listener that will allow public traffic from that port to the running fargate service.

When a CodeDeploy deployment is initiated (either via a pipeline or manually) CodeDeploy will:
1. call lambda function defined for `BeforeInstall` hook
2. attempt to create a new set of tasks (called the replacement set) with the new task definition etc. in the unused ALB Target Group
3. call lambda function defined for `AfterInstall` hook
4. associate the test listener (if defined) to the new target group
5. call lambda function defined for `AfterAllowTestTraffic` hook
6. call lambda function defined for `BeforeAllowTraffic` hook
7. associate the production listener to the new target group
8. call lambda function defined for `AfterAllowTraffic` hook
9. wait for the `codedeploy_termination_wait_time` in minutes before destroying the original task set (this is useful if you need to manually rollback)

At any step (except step #1) the deployment can rollback (either manually or by the lambda functions in the lifecycle hooks or if there was an error trying to actually deploy)

##### TODO add diagrams to explain the blue-green deployment process 

## Note
If you require additional variables please create an [issue](https://github.com/byu-oit/terraform-aws-fargate-api/issues)
 and/or a [pull request](https://github.com/byu-oit/terraform-aws-fargate-api/pulls) to add the variable and reach 
 out to the Terraform Working Group on slack (`#terraform` channel).
